I grew up exposed to a lot of political
propaganda probably you did too whether
or not we're aware of it most of us grow
up in the school system on television
that the newspapers when we're children
and were not really sophisticated yet to
analyze and unpack what were being told
most of us grow up stewing in political
propaganda and later we have to kind of
unravel its implications one of the
really distinctive trains of thought I
encountered in mainstream political
propaganda including my school textbooks
primary school grade school high school
even university was this assumption that
democracy is inevitably and inexorably
linked to mediocrity that democracy is a
moderating force in human nature this is
a total contrast to the opinion of
people in ancient Greece by the way if
you actually read Aristotle if you read
through Sidda T's people who experienced
democracy in ancient Athens said well
the problem is that democracy is very
slightly and passionate and tempestuous
they could just have a kind of town hall
meeting and decide that we're gonna
start a war they'd have a town hall
meeting and decide what they were gonna
do with the prisoners of war and decide
that they should Massacre them all that
tell one person could get up and give a
past passionate speech and in a
democracy there'd be terrible decisions
made with terrible consequences whereas
the perspective in ancient Athens was
being ruled by a king or other forms of
more dictatorial government didn't have
these features so real contrast between
the modern assumptions and the ancient
apprehensions about democracy and this
reflects the fact that modern democracy
it's not all that democratic um you know
there's some truth to the prejudice when
you're looking at an extreme tyrannical
totalitarian system like communism in
contrast to modern democracy there's a
great example when you look at the
history of communism in India some of
you it may be news to here that India
does have its own history of communism
but yeah it wasn't just in China was
interesting Europe wasn't just in South
America India has its own paradoxical
and peculiar history of communism but
basically today there were two types of
Communists in India there are the
Communists who embraced their role
within democracy the idea that whatever
they were going to accomplish
politically they had to convince
thousands of people to vote for them
they had to participate in elections
they had to speak in Parliament they had
to debate their plans and be subject to
criticism in the newspapers yeah and
then there are the Max alights there are
the extremist violent militaristic
communist who don't accept any of that
and who engage in armed warfare to
achieve their ends who only believe in
revolution now as you can imagine the
number of people who are moderate and
reasonable and participate in democracy
they very much outnumber the people who
want to live in the jungle with a
machine gun in extreme poverty and be in
a state of perpetual war against the
government but that's that's still
ongoing they still have constant armed
conflict with these armed communist
guerillas by the way um there's a sense
in which the process of participating in
democracy removes some of the worst war
successes in human nature or at least
puts a procedure in place where the
government is going to notice something
that's going terribly wrong people are
gonna complain and then something will
be done to adjust moderate the harm of
terrible decisions that the government
may have made let's just say Canada
decided it nailed wanted to catch up
with the Pharaohs of ancient Egypt and
we were going to build a pyramid we're
gonna build a giant pyramid made out of
solid stone and we decided that the way
to do this was to force every
able-bodied man and woman for two months
of the year to be slaves carrying these
heavy stones all right Mason like a
surreal example but this kind of is at
the basis of what we think about
democracy and its moderating influence
in the 21st century you can imagine if
you have a free press if you have people
facing election and reelection unless
these people who are working like slaves
to build this pyramid are being treated
in fantastically positive conditions
unless they're really
soozee astok about building the pyramids
this is not going to last long now
meanwhile the government the United
States of America
using only professional soldiers and
professional security corporations what
have you they can wage war in
Afghanistan for many many years as long
as it's out of sight out of mind and
nobody has to think about it nobody has
to personally participate they can spend
billions or more than a trillion dollars
on that war and however uncomfortable
the public is with it it seems there
seems to be no check no oversight and so
on democracy seems to be not terribly
interested in that war over the last
twenty years so you know certainly
democracies are capable of doing things
much worse than enslaving the population
to build pyramids if they're out of
sight out of mind
if the cost isn't too much to you
personally or to your own children
personally or fairly president as long
as the damage is spread out evenly
enough over the population modern
democracies are capable of doing
absolutely terrible things and obviously
you know the history of how the United
States of America has treated its own
indigenous peoples there are lots of
examples of the terrible thing as
democracies can do it's important that
when we're criticizing what's wrong with
communism we state very precisely what
the problem is and we stayed very
precisely what the solution is because
it is simply in this sense democracy I
would have no objection to the Communist
Party of China if it were behaving like
the left Democratic Front of Kerala in
India okay the left Democratic Front of
Kerala that's what's that's what remains
of the once radical revolutionary
communists of India right they have been
watered down and moderated and and what
moderated them you know they have to go
through the same humiliating process of
any other political party of asking for
donations going to talk to people
door-to-door or listening to people
giving lectures asking people to vote
for them when people don't want to vote
for them they have to figure out what it
is they said that was so unpopular and
changed their platform if the Communists
Party of China were going through that
kind of process it wouldn't even take
ten years for them to become quite a
reasonable and responsive sort of
political party and if you actually
listen to the rhetoric from si Jinping
of the current dictatorial leader of
China it's obvious that he personally
does not in any way believe in the same
doctrines Mao Zedong believed in the
past he doesn't even encourage his
followers to believe in it the main
thing he encourages people to believe in
is the sense of destiny that China has
as a whole and the special role the
Communist Party has in that supposed
destiny um whether you think of
democracy as something that disciplines
human nature or is a sort of peculiar
lack of discipline a sort of freedom for
human nature to let us show everything
that's wrong with that and for us to sit
back and judge it and what have you this
really is the crucial problem with with
Chinese communism and it's a problem
that ironically can be solved when
communism is combined with real
democracy
the only footnote there is that very
rapidly communism loses all of its
distinctive features I think that anyone
who takes a glance at the Communist
Party in Kerala India would very rapidly
come to the collusion look this is just
a mainstream left-of-center Democratic
Party these people do not represent
communism in any meaningful sense of the
term by the strict definition of
communism they're still using the
symbols of communism still literally use
the hammer and sickle but this has been
diluted past the point where it can be
recognized as communism by any any
strict definition any any textbook
definition I'm making this video in
response to the fact that I got the sort
of strange but inevitable news today
from JJ McCullough's channel that um you
know this horrible YouTube channel China
uncensored seems to be to some extent a
front for and linked to the Falun Gong
cult the Fenland f uh you know movement
and have to say I'm a very harsh critic
of that YouTube channel and there was a
time in the past when I forced myself to
try to listen to their podcast that very
high level of interest in the politics
of both Taiwan and China there
very few podcasts there very few news
sources in English to listen to on that
stuff and my main impression of who
those people were and what they were
about was simply that they were complete
idiots now you know these are not
mutually exclusive explanations it's
possible that they are complete idiots
and they are at the same time in the
pocket of or you know in some sense
working for felon gong I find that hard
to believe for a couple of reasons one
the host eats meat and boasts about it
that may not mean much to some of us but
it's telling this guy is a very very low
level of knowledge of China a very low
level knowledge of Chinese he knows
nothing about Buddhism he knows nothing
about Chinese esoteric philosophy or
wisdom he's a former classical music
major who openly boasts that his
favorite food is steak and when he goes
to cover the elections in Taiwan as a
journalist and he was treated as a
serious journalist there he was shown a
great deal of you had the red carpet
rolled out for him as if he was a
legitimate journalist in Taiwan he's
largely boasting about what he ate in
each city and its dead animals of one
kind or another he does not seem like a
candidate for recruitment into or to be
a representative of felon gong now the
counter-argument is maybe precisely that
is the point maybe this is a cult group
that's really smart enough to realize
they need a meat eating joking informal
guy to wear the suit and sit there on
camera and try to make them look like
less of a creepy and ridiculous cult
which in the year 2020 make no mistake
that is that is very much what they are
um
what always seemed to me strange about
China uncensored is that they seem to be
opposed to communism without any of the
caveats I've just set out in this video
you know what is it exactly you oppose
about communism I've been very clear I'm
against communism because it's not
democratic I I don't think in the year
2020 any political regime should be
allowed to exist that doesn't allow its
people to vote for the new leader that
doesn't allow those people even to issue
recall ballots to get rid of a bad
leader I don't think any political
regime should exist that doesn't allow
its people to criticize the authorities
that are in power and this would have
very definite implications for Saudi
Arabia communists are not the only
dictatorships in the world but I think
there is just very fundamentally no
legitimacy possible
in the absence of a shortlist of check
marks that defines democracy in this
sense this is without even getting into
how what an ideal democracy might be for
example the gap between the kind of
elections you have in the United States
of America and what you have in
Switzerland there are important
differences in distinctions but I'm
talking about minimum standards of
democracy communism fails it and that's
I'm against to it but if you're actually
opposed to an ideology that espouses
atheism equal rights for women
modernization the upliftment of the poor
the idea that factory workers and
farmers should be more important than
corporate bigwigs Oh what is it exactly
that the people behind China uncensored
object to now it's tragic that we live
in a world where the best criticism of
psychiatry is in the hands of a
completely insane cult called
Scientology we know this but they have
front organizations that are engaged in
the criticism of everything that's wrong
with psychiatry today including people
being put in shackles and losing their
civil rights just horrible horrible
things that go wrong at mental hospitals
you're really important and somebody
needs to kind of bring the fight forward
including raising money for lawyers and
legal cases and questioning the use of
psychiatric drugs and their side effects
I think the only major NGOs and
charities doing this sadly are fronts
operated by
Scientology also has drug rehabilitation
front groups where they pretend to be
helping people get over drug addiction
and alcoholism and it's actually to
promote their cult this is a dark side
of the you know the cult and religion
industry the United States of America
but we also have to question why is
nobody else doing it why isn't someone
else doing it better if you want to talk
about the critique of Chinese communism
in English in the 21st century
who else is even doing this
who else is publishing anything like a
newspaper or a magazine
who else is making YouTube videos on
this the pickings are shockingly slim
why is it that it's only this laughable
odious immoral cult that's motivated to
do this and like any kind of criticism
they can't be wrong all the time even a
broken watch is Right twice a day
I remember reading an article that dealt
with a really heart-rending example of
activism they did were they asked people
across China including people were
currently you know employed by the
government of China to sign a
declaration that they wanted to abolish
and tear down the Communist Party
so this stage it's very moving that's
very sympathetic and you realize that
the people signing this in China they
know the consequences it may mean that
they are unemployable you know within
China their their job options have just
gotten much much narrower they won't be
hunted down and executed it's not quite
that harsh in China but any kind of
sensitive job you'll never be able to
work as a teacher or a university
professor you won't get a government job
again you're gonna be black less than
it's quite likely your own children and
grandchildren are gonna be blacklisted
because you stood up and said hey enough
with communism already but I remember I
begin reading this this article and it
included some moving quotations from
people some of them were elderly who
said look I'm old enough to remember the
old days with communism I'm enough I'm
old enough to remember the old ideals
this movement used to represent and I've
lost faith I think this is just a crummy
corrupt dictatorship now I want
something better it's time for China to
move on this these kinds of things to
get someone 80 years old or somebody
says yes I'm willing to sign this
declaration and put my name to it and
I'm willing to be persecuted because I'm
I'm done with
No so there were a lot of really
emotionally moving personal histories
about communism but what was absence was
democracy like this didn't seem to be
pushing that the what's really missing
from communism and again atheism no
problem equality for women
no problem modernization factory workers
farmers you know the the missing element
is democracy and keep in mind again I
know this may have sounded like a
ridiculous example when I said well what
if the government wanted to enslave
people to build the pyramids government
of China did that government of Cambodia
did that but there was no Free Press
there was no democracy there's no votes
there was no there were no consequences
to the people in power and people
starved to death people were massacred
people were murdered in you know forced
work projects that that really happened
there are people alive still today who
remember it it's not such a change in
history and it's very clear to see that
what's missing there is this moderating
effect of of democracy like even if the
government gets a stupid idea and people
start dying because the government
starts implementing it or at least
there's some capacity to complain
reconsider debate vote before you get up
to a body count in the millions or tens
of millions of people right as I
continued reading this article what
became clear to me was that the authors
of this article and I don't know but the
people who actually signed the
Declaration each one had different you
know motivations but the authors of this
article were not interested in directing
China towards a new era of democracy at
all what they were interested in was
returning to the virtues of the Tang
Dynasty they were addressed they were
turning to Chinese feudalism
Confucianism men with long beards who
write the Imperial exam and live in
service to the Emperor they wanted to
return to you of course not the real
history of medieval China you know not
the reality of feudalism in China they
wanted to return to a kung-fu movie idea
of
what China supposedly was like in the
fabled good old days and that is the
agenda of felon Gong that is the agenda
in general of most eighty communist
conservatives within Chinese culture
sadly what you see not everyone but the
voices that have money the voices that
have magazines and newspapers and
YouTube channels are mysteriously
anti-communist but not pro-democracy
there are anti-communist but what they
really want is return to a fantasy of
the supposed glory the supposed grandeur
of of pre-modern China and that is every
bit as insidious every bit as revolting
as meeting a white man in the American
South meeting a white man in Georgia who
wants to go back to the situation before
the Civil War when you've had feudalism
aristocracy and white people owning
slaves and make no mistake slavery was a
very important part of pre-modern China
we don't talk about so much and the
struggle to achieve the abolition of
slavery is another very important
history that we don't talk about okay I
grew up with Communists there's nothing
exotic about it to me you know I'm I'm
just as familiar with communism as as I
am with democracy from my own childhood
forward including the periods of my life
in which I lived in China Laos and
Cambodia in many ways I grew up being
taught that all of the virtues belong to
communism and none of them belong to
democracy
the question of what is and what is not
virtuous what is and what is not the
right thing for the government to do is
always going to be an open any question
there's always going to be things that
are unknown was it really the right
thing to do for the United States to put
itself billion
and billions of dollars into debt so
that they could plant an American flag
on the moon right I don't think that's a
that's a question that has a simple
answer okay I think it's actually
crucially important that you have
freedom of speech and discussion and
debate and you have a parliament or a
Congress or at least some people are
willing to stand up and say hey I think
this is a stupid idea guys I think this
is gonna bankrupt our grandchildren I
think we're gonna be paying billions of
dollars in taxes for this ego-trip
that's not gonna accomplish anything
oh I realize I'm in the minority here I
realized that if you put it to a vote in
the United States of America not only
would 51% of people have voted to put a
flag on the moon back then probably
today if say you know what the country
is almost bankrupt you want to go a few
billion dollars into debt we'll put a
flag of them they probably 51% of people
vote for it again right now 2020 it'd
probably vote to build a lunar base just
cuz they think it's cool all right what
is virtue and what is vice what is a
good idea and what is a bad idea which
policies are which worth pursuing and
which ones are going to be a disaster I
think it's something fundamentally
unknowable right and it's because we
live with the push and pull of those
unknowns that we need to have forms of
government that are undergoing constant
evaluation constant criticism and
self-criticism where you know whether
it's a dictator or democratic leader
someone comes up with an idea they think
they've found the solution in China they
thought they found the solution Fri
don't lift millions of people out of
poverty and they ended up destroying the
ragam culture sector starving tens of
millions of people to death it was a
disaster but the reason why that
disaster went so far was because of
totalitarianism it's because nobody was
allowed to complain nobody was allowed
to moderate or counteract or say look we
realize you had you thought this was a
brilliant plan but it's not working we
need to go back to the drawing board we
need to re-evaluate totalitarianism
doesn't have any particular color
it's neither left nor right you can have
a centrist government that's
totalitarian also right the fundamental
thing to understand is that democracy
isn't just the ops
of communism democracy is the opposite
of totalitarianism and it's not the case
that totalitarianism has all the bad
ideas and democracy has all the good
ideas but what democracy has is the
capacity for us to sit down and
reconsider again and again was this a
good idea was it was it really